{"id": 6695988, "s2_id": "65f534e6e04e0e79ffa4c5be085cb63e1b330959", "title": "Fair Representation Learning using Interpolation Enabled Disentanglement", "abstract": "With the growing interest in machine learning community to solve real world problems, it has become crucial to uncover the hidden reasoning behind their decisions by focusing on the fairness and auditing the predictions made by these black-box models. In this paper, we propose a novel method to address two key issues: (a) Can we simultaneously learn fair disentangled representations while ensuring the utility of the learned representation for downstream tasks, and (b) Can we provide theoretical insights into when the proposed approach will be both fair and accurate. To address the former, we propose the method FRIED, Fair Representation learning using Interpolation Enabled Disentanglement. In our architecture, by imposing a critic-based adversarial framework, we enforce the interpolated points in the latent space to be more realistic. This helps in capturing the data manifold effectively and enhances utility of the learned representation for downstream prediction tasks. We address the latter question by developing theory on fairness-accuracy trade-offs using classifier-based conditional mutual information estimation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of FRIED on datasets of different modalities \u2014 tabular, text, and image datasets. We observe that the representations learned by FRIED are overall fairer in comparison to existing baselines and also accurate for downstream prediction tasks. Additionally, we evaluate FRIED on a real-world healthcare claims dataset where we conduct an expert aided model auditing study providing useful insights into opioid addiction patterns.", "venue": "ArXiv", "authors": ["Akshita  Jha", "Bhanukiran  Vinzamuri", "Chandan K. Reddy"], "year": 2021, "n_citations": 0}
{"id": 6695995, "s2_id": "e50c56ba36f7c0358840c0e2eb259d685bcefc87", "title": "Pricing options and computing implied volatilities using neural networks", "abstract": "This paper proposes a data-driven approach, by means of an Artificial Neural Network (ANN), to value financial options and to calculate implied volatilities with the aim of accelerating the corresponding numerical methods. With ANNs being universal function approximators, this method trains an optimized ANN on a data set generated by a sophisticated financial model, and runs the trained ANN as an agent of the original solver in a fast and efficient way. We test this approach on three different types of solvers, including the analytic solution for the Black-Scholes equation, the COS method for the Heston stochastic volatility model and Brent\u2019s iterative root-finding method for the calculation of implied volatilities. The numerical results show that the ANN solver can reduce the computing time significantly.", "venue": "Risks", "authors": ["Shuaiqiang  Liu", "Cornelis W. Oosterlee", "Sander M. Bohte"], "year": 2019, "n_citations": 61}
{"id": 6695804, "s2_id": "6780e340da00a44e583b29946fe15df3b6565e79", "title": "Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning for End-to-End Autonomous Driving on Urban Environments", "abstract": "Autonomous driving is a complex task, which has been tackled since the first self-driving car ALVINN in 1989, with a supervised learning approach, or behavioral cloning (BC). In BC, a neural network is trained with state-action pairs that constitute the training set made by an expert, i.e., a human driver. However, this type of imitation learning does not take into account the temporal dependencies that might exist between actions taken in different moments of a navigation trajectory. These type of tasks are better handled by reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms, which need to define a reward function. On the other hand, more recent approaches to imitation learning, such as Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL), can train policies without explicitly requiring to define a reward function, allowing an agent to learn by trial and error directly on a training set of expert trajectories. In this work, we propose two variations of GAIL for autonomous navigation of a vehicle in the realistic CARLA simulation environment for urban scenarios. Both of them use the same network architecture, which process highdimensional image input from three frontal cameras, and other nine continuous inputs representing the velocity, the next point from the sparse trajectory and a high-level driving command. We show that both of them are capable of imitating the expert trajectory from start to end after training ends, but the GAIL loss function that is augmented with BC outperforms the former in terms of convergence time and training stability.", "venue": "ArXiv", "authors": ["Gustavo Claudio Karl Couto", "Eric Aislan Antonelo"], "year": 2021, "n_citations": 0}